# Conclusion  

The line plot helps us explore our first research question, regarding comparing countries by their change in emissions over time. According to the line plot, some countries saw periods of improvement in their CO2 emissions per capita, but may either remain high or saw another increase. Qatar and Kuwait are two notable countries. They are small, but their peak emission levels are among the greatest in the world (in this data set). They both saw periods of improvement until around 1990, where they both started to increase again. Perhaps this is due to a regression and resurgence in their economic or social state. If we look at a few major world powers, such as the US, China, and Russia, we see that the US has had a fairly consistent level of emissions since 1950, but at a fairly high amount. It would be interesting to see data from before 1950 in the US, if it exists, since much of the industrialization in the US occurred during World War II and before. China has seen a slow steady increase over time, with a rate increase around the year 2000, and while it is still lower than the US emission levels (as of 2014), there are no clear signs of a decrease in rate. Overall, the emissions of countries from 1950-2014 do not always fit a smooth pattern, but can spike and fluctuate, which could signify historical, cultural, and economic events.  

The map helps us explore the second research question, regarding comparing the emissions of countries for a given year. Looking at the map, it becomes more clear that there is likely a link between country development level and CO2 emissions, unsurprisingly. Many countries in central Africa are still in green levels, while more developed countries are on the more red end of the scale. However, it is important to note that natural phenomena (such as volcanoes) could increase these values, as it is unclear if the data is strictly *man-made* CO2 or not. Also, less developed nations could have high emissions, to an extent, since less development could mean more reliance on non-renewable resources such as fossil fuels, as opposed to resources such as solar or wind, which require more investment (not to mention viability of renewable resources can depend on geography and climate).
